These materials were designed to be used by life science students to learn how to apply physics to investigate the function of ecosystems. The modules introduce concepts and provide practice implementing the concepts using computer programming. We have updated the modules to use the R coding language, which is widely used in the life sciences. The models are intended for mid-level undergraduate students who have some familiarity with ecology and differential calculus and algebra. The modules assume only minimal familiarity with the R language. 

This series of instructional modules was adapted from those developed for a course in Physical Processes in Terestrial and Aquatic Ecosystems that was initially taught in February 1979 by the University of University of Washington Center for Quantitative Science in Forestry, Fisheries and Wildlife (https://quantitative.uw.edu/).  The course was supported by a National Science Foundation Training Grant (No. GZ-2980). The course was coordinated by and Ben Jayne and XXX from the University of Washington and David Gates from the University of Michigan served as an advisor. Graduate students and others contributed modules. Most of the thermodynamic modules were authored by RD "Swifty" Stevenson, who was a graduate student at the time and is now a professor of Animal Physiology at the University of Massachusetts Boston. We thank Swifty for encouragement for and assistance with updating the modules.

Bookdown commands:
bookdown::publish_book(server="bookdown.org")
bookdown::render_book('index.Rmd', 'bookdown::pdf_book')
